run-a-dv/integrations/lido-v3-stvault-for-node-operator.md, before:

# Node Operator Guide – Operating a Lido V3 stVault with an Obol DV Cluster

> Scope: This guide is for node operators / infra teams who operate a Lido V3 stVault backed by an Obol Distributed Validator (DV) cluster.
> 
> 
> It assumes:
> 
> - stVault creation is done via **Lido’s stVault UI** or **Lido’s stVault CLI**, and
> - validator operations (deposit, exit, withdrawal, etc.) are performed using **Lido stVault CLI or Lido’s stVault UI only**.
> 
> **Do not use the Obol Launchpad UI for any validators belonging to a stVault.**
> 

> ⚠️ This guide is multi-operator only.
> 
> 
> All examples and RR benefits assume **multi-operator DVT vaults**. Single-operator setups are out of scope.
> 

---

## 1. High-Level Flow (Multi-Operator Obol DV Vaults)

At a high level, the lifecycle for a multi-operator Obol DV stVault is:

1. **Create the stVault**
    
    – via **Lido stVault UI** (recommended where available) or **Lido stVault CLI**.
    
2. **Set up governance & fee routing**
    
    – configure `GOVERNANCE_SAFE`, `NODE_OPERATOR_SAFE` using GnosisSafe UI and `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`  using [splits.org](http://splits.org) UI. 
    
3. **Create and publish the Obol DV cluster**
    
    – multi-operator DV cluster with the vault as withdrawal / fee recipient.
    
4. **Run and monitor the DV cluster**
    
    – using Obol’s observability stack.
    
5. **Monitor the vault**
    
    – using **Lido stVault CLI** (`contracts dashboard` and `vo` read commands) plus stVault UI.
    
6. **Distribute rewards and fees**
    
    – from the vault to the splitter, and from the splitter to participants (including Obol).
    

---

## 2. Creating the Vault (UI vs CLI)

You can create a stVault in two ways:

- **Lido stVault UI (recommended)**
    - Hoodi testnet UI: `https://stvaults-hoodi.testnet.fi/`
    - Mainnet stVault UI link will follow Lido’s official docs once live.
- **Lido Staking Vault CLI**
    - Main docs and command reference:
        
        `https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/`
        

The CLI exposes two main entry points you will use:

- `vo` – **vault-oriented commands** (lower-level, contract-centric).
- `contracts dashboard` – **dashboard-oriented commands** (product/UX layer, usually nicer for day-to-day).

**Practical split:**

- Use **`contracts dashboard r overview / health / info` as your primary monitoring entrypoint** (per vault “product”).
- Use **`vo r overview / health / info / roles`** when you need contract-level detail, addresses, or role debugging.

> For beacon-chain deposits, validator exits, withdrawals and other stVault operations, use the Lido stVault UIor Lido stVault CLI only.
> 
> 
> Do **not** use the Obol Launchpad UI for these validators.
> 

For the rest of this guide we assume a **multi-operator DVT vault** with, for example:

- **Cluster size:** 5 operators
- **Cluster limit:** up to ~1,000,000 ETH (subject to Lido risk / tier approvals)
- **Validator max stake:** 1,920 ETH per validator
- **Total validators:** ~520–600 in a full configuration

These values are **illustrative**; actual limits depend on your and depositor’s risk framework and governance.

---

## 3. Core On-Chain Addresses & Safes

Before (or alongside) vault creation, set up three core components.

### 3.1 Governance Safe (`GOVERNANCE_SAFE`)

- **Role:** vault owner / governance multi-sig.
- **Where to create:**
    - Mainnet: `https://safe.global/`
    - Hoodi testnet: Protofire Safe UI – `https://app.safe.protofire.io/`
- **Example policy:**
    - 5/5 multi-sig across:
        - client / treasury signers and/or
        - operator representatives.
    - Typically used as:
        - **Vault Owner**
        - **Default Admin / Node Operator Manager**

---

### 3.2 Node Operator Safe (`NODE_OPERATOR_SAFE`)

- **Role:** operational multi-sig for day-to-day validator + vault actions.
- **Where to create:**
    - Mainnet: `https://safe.global/`
    - Hoodi: `https://app.safe.protofire.io/`
- **Example policy:**
    - 3/5 multi-sig across node operators and/or client infra.
- **Typical responsibilities:**
    - Funding the vault
    - Depositing to beacon chain
    - Requesting validator exits
    - Triggering withdrawals
    - Initiating rebalances
    - Minting/burning stETH if allowed by governance
    - Interacting with Lido stVault contracts via CLI

---

### 3.3 Fee Split Contract (`FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`)

On **mainnet**, Obol’s protocol fee is enforced via a fee splitter:

- Create via **Splits UI**: `https://app.splits.org/`
- Configure:
    - **1% of node operator fee → Obol protocol fee address**
        
        `0xDe5aE4De36c966747Ea7DF13BD9589642e2B1D0d`
        
    - Remaining **99% split** between client teams / operators according to your commercial terms.

On **Hoodi**, Splits may not be available or may not support that network:

- You may **skip the splitter** on testnet.
- On mainnet, **using a splitter that routes 1% to Obol is mandatory** for Obol protocol rewards.

The image below shows splits UI to create a splits contract where 1% is for Obol protocol fee and 24.5% to all other node operators.

![image.png](attachment:b85af3e1-1e14-4569-b141-73e417eb98d2:image.png)

---

## 4. Recommended Vault Parameters & Roles

When creating the vault via UI or CLI, we recommend the following mapping.

### 4.1 Main Settings (Vault Parameters)

- **Node Operator:** `NODE_OPERATOR_SAFE`
    
    Entity responsible for validator operations and day-to-day vault actions.
    
- **Vault Owner:** `GOVERNANCE_SAFE`
    
    Controls vault ownership, high-level parameters, and emergency controls.
    
- **Node Operator Manager:** `GOVERNANCE_SAFE`
    
    Oversees the Node Operator; can be a separate address if required by governance.
    
- **Node Operator Fee Recipient:** `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`
    
    Set **after vault creation** so all node-operator fees route through the splitter.
    
- **Node Operator Fee:** typically **5–10%** (expressed in basis points in the UI / CLI).
- **Confirmation Lifetime:** e.g. **48 hours**
    
    Relevant if `Vault Owner` and `Node Operator Manager` differ; defines how long confirmations are valid for sensitive operations.
    

For the latest flags and options when creating a vault, refer to:

**Lido stVault CLI – `vo` commands**

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/vo`

---

### 4.2 Role Assignments & Responsibilities (Recommended)

| Address | Type | Permissions (examples) | Duties (examples) | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `GOVERNANCE_SAFE` | Multi-sig (e.g. 5/5) | Grant / revoke roles, transfer vault ownership, set confirmation expiry, pause / resume deposits, recover stuck assets, change node operator, set fee rates. | Strategic governance, emergency handling, fee structure oversight, monitoring node-operator performance, asset recovery. | Primary governance. Often also the node operator manager and vault owner. |
| `NODE_OPERATOR_SAFE` | Multi-sig (e.g. 3/5) | Deposit ETH to beacon chain, manage validator operations, trigger withdrawals, request exits, rebalance vault, monitor performance, claim node-operator fees. | Day-to-day vault and validator operations, responding to alerts, maintaining uptime and SLAs. | Single operational entry-point; should follow strict runbooks and operational policies. |
| `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT` | Smart contract | Anyone can call **distribute**; only configured recipients can **claim**. | Receive node-operator fee rewards, split to participants (client teams, operators, Obol), maintain on-chain records. | Obol gets 1% fee share via its protocol address; 99% split as per commercial agreement. |

These are **recommendations**, not protocol requirements; adapt to your own governance and risk appetite.

---

## 5. Obol DV Cluster Setup (Multi-Operator Only)

After the vault and core addresses exist, you can set up the **Obol DV cluster**.

Follow Obol’s docs for **multi-operator DV setup**:

- **Cluster size:** minimum 4 independent operators recommended
- **Compounding validators:** `true` (recommended for vault integrations).
- **Withdrawal address:** vault withdrawal address.
- **Fee recipient address:** vault / dashboard address.
- **Number of validators:** sized to your capacity and Lido-approved tier.

Obol cluster creation docs:

[Create a DV With a Group](../start/create-a-dv-with-a-group.md)

> When generating the cluster lock, use the --publish flag so the cluster lock is published and verifiable by:
> 
> - DV participants,
> - Lido risk review & DVT tier evaluation, and
> - Better support by Obol Team in troubleshooting cluster issues.

![image.png](attachment:9c11c6f7-bd54-426b-9b7c-203b64a46521:image.png)

![image.png](attachment:22264d19-a88a-4ba6-8955-04c7afe89c45:image.png)

---

## 6. Monitoring (DV Cluster & Vault)

### 6.1 Obol DV Monitoring

For DV-specific monitoring (RAVER, attestations, client health, etc.), use Obol’s monitoring stack:

Obol monitoring docs:

[Monitoring Your Node](../running/monitoring.md)

Typical components:

- Metrics (e.g. Prometheus) for:
    - attestation inclusion & timing
    - proposer success
    - Charon peer connectivity
    - execution and consensus client health
- Alerts on:
    - missed duties
    - peer disconnects
    - client restarts / crashes
    - RAVER dropping below your target (e.g. 98%, if that’s your internal standard)

Operators should agree on:

- shared alert channels (Slack / Telegram / Discord), and
- explicit SLAs (who responds, how quickly, escalation path).

---

### 6.2 Vault Monitoring (Using Lido stVault CLI)

The **Lido stVault CLI** exposes read-only commands that are essential for operators and vault managers.

CLI docs root:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/`

You will typically use:

- **`contracts dashboard` read commands** for primary monitoring, and
- **`vo` read commands** for lower-level details and role inspection.

### 6.2.1 Dashboard-Centric View (Recommended UX)

For everyday operations, prefer the **dashboard** read commands:

```bash
# Dashboard overview
yarn start contracts dashboard r overview <dashboardAddress>

# Dashboard health
yarn start contracts dashboard r health <dashboardAddress>

# Dashboard info (addresses, parameters, vault bindings)
yarn start contracts dashboard r info <dashboardAddress>

```

These provide a product-level view of:

- vault health & status
- key parameters and addresses
- high-level metrics relevant to the specific “vault product”

Docs:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/contracts/dashboard`

---

### 6.2.2 Vault-Level View (`vo` – Advanced / Low-Level)

For underlying vault configuration and debugging, use `vo`:

```bash
# Vault overview (contract-level)
yarn start vo r overview -v <vaultAddress>

# Quick health check
yarn start vo r health -v <vaultAddress>

# Roles and permissions
yarn start vo r roles -v <vaultAddress>

# Core vault info (fee parameters, limits, addresses, etc.)
yarn start vo r info -v <vaultAddress>

```

Docs:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/vo`

In practice:

- **Dashboard commands** → main UX surface for operators.
- **`vo` commands** → used when you need full contract detail or to diagnose odd behavior.

---

### 6.2.3 Performance Metrics (`metrics` namespace)

Use the `metrics` namespace for APR and rewards analysis:

```bash
# Comprehensive statistics (APR & rewards)
yarn start metrics r statistic <dashboardAddress>

# APR history (simplified text mode)
yarn start metrics r charts-apr <dashboardAddress> <reportCount> --simplified

# Rewards distribution charts
yarn start metrics r charts-rewards <dashboardAddress> <reportCount>

```

Docs:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/metrics`

Use these for:

- performance reviews
- sanity-checking expected vs realized APR
- understanding the effect of DVT tiers and any strategy layer

---

### 6.3 Example Alerting Rules (Non-Canonical)

> The thresholds below are illustrative only.
> 
> 
> They are not official Lido or Obol requirements and should be tuned to your vault’s risk profile, product design, and the latest protocol guidance.
> 

Examples of vault-level alerts you might configure:

- **Health factor approaching 100%**
    - Trigger an alert when health factor trends down into a “warning band” you define (for example, somewhere below x% according to your strategy), so you have time to respond before it reaches unsafe levels.
- **High utilization of mint capacity**
    - Alert when utilization ratio is close to full (for example, above your internal high-water mark), indicating the vault is near its minting / leverage limit.
- **Low immediate liquidity**
    - Alert when “available to withdraw” ETH falls below an internal buffer — for instance, less than one or two validators’ worth of ETH, depending on how your product handles withdrawals.
- **Sustained underperformance vs expectation**
    - Alert when net staking APR stays materially below your internal target range for multiple reporting periods (e.g. several `metrics r statistic` runs in a row).
- **Low operational efficiency**
    - Alert when net APR / gross APR (efficiency) drops below your chosen target, signalling that penalties, slashing, or high costs are eroding returns more than expected.

**Cadence (example only):**

- Health & dashboard checks: **at least daily**, ideally via automated alerts.
- Performance statistics (`metrics r statistic`): **weekly**.
- APR / rewards charts (`metrics r charts-apr / charts-rewards`): **monthly or quarterly** reviews.

---

## 7. Deposits, Exits, Withdrawals (Pointers Only)

This guide intentionally **does not duplicate** the full stVault operations surface. For:

- **Beacon-chain deposits** (funding validators),
- **Validator exits**,
- **Triggering withdrawals**,
- **Withdrawing ETH from the vault to treasury**,
- **Minting / burning stETH or wstETH**,

use the **Lido stVault CLI** docs:

- Dashboard write commands (deposits, exits, etc.):
    
    `https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/contracts/dashboard#write`
    
- Vault / VaultHub / additional commands:
    
    `https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/`
    

This keeps your operational runbooks aligned with the latest Lido contracts and CLI behaviour.

---

## 8. Fees, Splitter & Obol Rewards

### 8.1 From Vault to Fee Splitter

Step 1: disburse **node operator fees** from the vault/dashboard to `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT` using the Lido CLI.

1. (Optional) Inspect vault info:
    
    ```bash
    yarn start vo r info -v <vaultAddress>
    ```
    
2. Disburse node-operator fees to the configured `feeRecipient` (your splitter) using the **dashboard write** command:
    
    ```bash
    yarn start contracts dashboard w disburse-node-operator-fee \
      <dashboardAddress>
    ```
    

Dashboard write docs:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/contracts/dashboard#write`

This moves accrued node-operator fees from the vault to your `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`.

Hoodi link: https://stvaults-hoodi.testnet.fi/vaults/your_vault_address/claim

---

### 8.2 From Splitter to Participants

Step 2: **distribute and claim** via Splits:

1. Open **Splits UI**: `https://app.splits.org/`
2. Select your `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`.
3. Run:
    - **Distribute** – moves the contract’s balance into recipients’ claimable balances.
    - **Claim** – each participant (client, operators, Obol) claims to their own address or Safe.

Verify:

- Vault → splitter transfers match expectations.
- Splitter allocations match your agreed split.
- Obol’s **1% fee share** is visible and claimable at its protocol address.

Hoodi Link: Not available
Mainnet Link: https://app.splits.org/accounts/fee_splitter_contract_address/?chainId=1

---

### 8.3 Obol Rewards (Protocol Incentives)

If the splitter is configured correctly with Obol’s 1% share, **Obol rewards** can be claimed via:

- **Obol Launchpad:** `https://launchpad.obol.org/`

Process:

1. Connect the **recipient wallet / Safe** that owns the reward entitlement.
2. Navigate to the rewards section.
3. Claim any available incentives.

> Launchpad is used only for claiming Obol rewards.
> 
> 
> All validator-related actions for stVaults must still go through the **Lido stVault UI or CLI**, not Launchpad.
> 

Hoodi Link: https://hoodi.launchpad.obol.org/operator/your_address/

Mainnet Link: https://launchpad.obol.org/operator/your_address/

Commit message:

Update image references in node operator guide

run-a-dv/integrations/lido-v3-stvault-for-node-operator.md, after:

# Node Operator Guide – Operating a Lido V3 stVault with an Obol DV Cluster

> Scope: This guide is for node operators / infra teams who operate a Lido V3 stVault backed by an Obol Distributed Validator (DV) cluster.
> 
> 
> It assumes:
> 
> - stVault creation is done via **Lido’s stVault UI** or **Lido’s stVault CLI**, and
> - validator operations (deposit, exit, withdrawal, etc.) are performed using **Lido stVault CLI or Lido’s stVault UI only**.
> 
> **Do not use the Obol Launchpad UI for any validators belonging to a stVault.**
> 

> ⚠️ This guide is multi-operator only.
> 
> 
> All examples and RR benefits assume **multi-operator DVT vaults**. Single-operator setups are out of scope.
> 

---

## 1. High-Level Flow (Multi-Operator Obol DV Vaults)

At a high level, the lifecycle for a multi-operator Obol DV stVault is:

1. **Create the stVault**
    
    – via **Lido stVault UI** (recommended where available) or **Lido stVault CLI**.
    
2. **Set up governance & fee routing**
    
    – configure `GOVERNANCE_SAFE`, `NODE_OPERATOR_SAFE` using GnosisSafe UI and `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`  using [splits.org](http://splits.org) UI. 
    
3. **Create and publish the Obol DV cluster**
    
    – multi-operator DV cluster with the vault as withdrawal / fee recipient.
    
4. **Run and monitor the DV cluster**
    
    – using Obol’s observability stack.
    
5. **Monitor the vault**
    
    – using **Lido stVault CLI** (`contracts dashboard` and `vo` read commands) plus stVault UI.
    
6. **Distribute rewards and fees**
    
    – from the vault to the splitter, and from the splitter to participants (including Obol).
    

---

## 2. Creating the Vault (UI vs CLI)

You can create a stVault in two ways:

- **Lido stVault UI (recommended)**
    - Hoodi testnet UI: `https://stvaults-hoodi.testnet.fi/`
    - Mainnet stVault UI link will follow Lido’s official docs once live.
- **Lido Staking Vault CLI**
    - Main docs and command reference:
        
        `https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/`
        

The CLI exposes two main entry points you will use:

- `vo` – **vault-oriented commands** (lower-level, contract-centric).
- `contracts dashboard` – **dashboard-oriented commands** (product/UX layer, usually nicer for day-to-day).

**Practical split:**

- Use **`contracts dashboard r overview / health / info` as your primary monitoring entrypoint** (per vault “product”).
- Use **`vo r overview / health / info / roles`** when you need contract-level detail, addresses, or role debugging.

> For beacon-chain deposits, validator exits, withdrawals and other stVault operations, use the Lido stVault UIor Lido stVault CLI only.
> 
> 
> Do **not** use the Obol Launchpad UI for these validators.
> 

For the rest of this guide we assume a **multi-operator DVT vault** with, for example:

- **Cluster size:** 5 operators
- **Cluster limit:** up to ~1,000,000 ETH (subject to Lido risk / tier approvals)
- **Validator max stake:** 1,920 ETH per validator
- **Total validators:** ~520–600 in a full configuration

These values are **illustrative**; actual limits depend on your and depositor’s risk framework and governance.

---

## 3. Core On-Chain Addresses & Safes

Before (or alongside) vault creation, set up three core components.

### 3.1 Governance Safe (`GOVERNANCE_SAFE`)

- **Role:** vault owner / governance multi-sig.
- **Where to create:**
    - Mainnet: `https://safe.global/`
    - Hoodi testnet: Protofire Safe UI – `https://app.safe.protofire.io/`
- **Example policy:**
    - 5/5 multi-sig across:
        - client / treasury signers and/or
        - operator representatives.
    - Typically used as:
        - **Vault Owner**
        - **Default Admin / Node Operator Manager**

---

### 3.2 Node Operator Safe (`NODE_OPERATOR_SAFE`)

- **Role:** operational multi-sig for day-to-day validator + vault actions.
- **Where to create:**
    - Mainnet: `https://safe.global/`
    - Hoodi: `https://app.safe.protofire.io/`
- **Example policy:**
    - 3/5 multi-sig across node operators and/or client infra.
- **Typical responsibilities:**
    - Funding the vault
    - Depositing to beacon chain
    - Requesting validator exits
    - Triggering withdrawals
    - Initiating rebalances
    - Minting/burning stETH if allowed by governance
    - Interacting with Lido stVault contracts via CLI

---

### 3.3 Fee Split Contract (`FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`)

On **mainnet**, Obol’s protocol fee is enforced via a fee splitter:

- Create via **Splits UI**: `https://app.splits.org/`
- Configure:
    - **1% of node operator fee → Obol protocol fee address**
        
        `0xDe5aE4De36c966747Ea7DF13BD9589642e2B1D0d`
        
    - Remaining **99% split** between client teams / operators according to your commercial terms.

On **Hoodi**, Splits may not be available or may not support that network:

- You may **skip the splitter** on testnet.
- On mainnet, **using a splitter that routes 1% to Obol is mandatory** for Obol protocol rewards.

The image below shows splits UI to create a splits contract where 1% is for Obol protocol fee and 24.5% to all other node operators.

![Splits.org UI showing recipients configuration](attachment:splits-ui-recipients:image.png)

---

## 4. Recommended Vault Parameters & Roles

When creating the vault via UI or CLI, we recommend the following mapping.

### 4.1 Main Settings (Vault Parameters)

- **Node Operator:** `NODE_OPERATOR_SAFE`
    
    Entity responsible for validator operations and day-to-day vault actions.
    
- **Vault Owner:** `GOVERNANCE_SAFE`
    
    Controls vault ownership, high-level parameters, and emergency controls.
    
- **Node Operator Manager:** `GOVERNANCE_SAFE`
    
    Oversees the Node Operator; can be a separate address if required by governance.
    
- **Node Operator Fee Recipient:** `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`
    
    Set **after vault creation** so all node-operator fees route through the splitter.
    
- **Node Operator Fee:** typically **5–10%** (expressed in basis points in the UI / CLI).
- **Confirmation Lifetime:** e.g. **48 hours**
    
    Relevant if `Vault Owner` and `Node Operator Manager` differ; defines how long confirmations are valid for sensitive operations.
    

For the latest flags and options when creating a vault, refer to:

**Lido stVault CLI – `vo` commands**

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/vo`

---

### 4.2 Role Assignments & Responsibilities (Recommended)

| Address | Type | Permissions (examples) | Duties (examples) | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `GOVERNANCE_SAFE` | Multi-sig (e.g. 5/5) | Grant / revoke roles, transfer vault ownership, set confirmation expiry, pause / resume deposits, recover stuck assets, change node operator, set fee rates. | Strategic governance, emergency handling, fee structure oversight, monitoring node-operator performance, asset recovery. | Primary governance. Often also the node operator manager and vault owner. |
| `NODE_OPERATOR_SAFE` | Multi-sig (e.g. 3/5) | Deposit ETH to beacon chain, manage validator operations, trigger withdrawals, request exits, rebalance vault, monitor performance, claim node-operator fees. | Day-to-day vault and validator operations, responding to alerts, maintaining uptime and SLAs. | Single operational entry-point; should follow strict runbooks and operational policies. |
| `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT` | Smart contract | Anyone can call **distribute**; only configured recipients can **claim**. | Receive node-operator fee rewards, split to participants (client teams, operators, Obol), maintain on-chain records. | Obol gets 1% fee share via its protocol address; 99% split as per commercial agreement. |

These are **recommendations**, not protocol requirements; adapt to your own governance and risk appetite.

---

## 5. Obol DV Cluster Setup (Multi-Operator Only)

After the vault and core addresses exist, you can set up the **Obol DV cluster**.

Follow Obol’s docs for **multi-operator DV setup**:

- **Cluster size:** minimum 4 independent operators recommended
- **Compounding validators:** `true` (recommended for vault integrations).
- **Withdrawal address:** vault withdrawal address.
- **Fee recipient address:** vault / dashboard address.
- **Number of validators:** sized to your capacity and Lido-approved tier.

Obol cluster creation docs:

[Create a DV With a Group](../start/create-a-dv-with-a-group.md)

> When generating the cluster lock, use the --publish flag so the cluster lock is published and verifiable by:
> 
> - DV participants,
> - Lido risk review & DVT tier evaluation, and
> - Better support by Obol Team in troubleshooting cluster issues.

![Lido stVaults interface - Vault overview](attachment:lido-stvault-overview:image.png)

![Lido stVaults interface - Vault details](attachment:lido-stvault-details:image.png)

---

## 6. Monitoring (DV Cluster & Vault)

### 6.1 Obol DV Monitoring

For DV-specific monitoring (RAVER, attestations, client health, etc.), use Obol’s monitoring stack:

Obol monitoring docs:

[Monitoring Your Node](../running/monitoring.md)

Typical components:

- Metrics (e.g. Prometheus) for:
    - attestation inclusion & timing
    - proposer success
    - Charon peer connectivity
    - execution and consensus client health
- Alerts on:
    - missed duties
    - peer disconnects
    - client restarts / crashes
    - RAVER dropping below your target (e.g. 98%, if that’s your internal standard)

Operators should agree on:

- shared alert channels (Slack / Telegram / Discord), and
- explicit SLAs (who responds, how quickly, escalation path).

---

### 6.2 Vault Monitoring (Using Lido stVault CLI)

The **Lido stVault CLI** exposes read-only commands that are essential for operators and vault managers.

CLI docs root:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/`

You will typically use:

- **`contracts dashboard` read commands** for primary monitoring, and
- **`vo` read commands** for lower-level details and role inspection.

### 6.2.1 Dashboard-Centric View (Recommended UX)

For everyday operations, prefer the **dashboard** read commands:

```bash
# Dashboard overview
yarn start contracts dashboard r overview <dashboardAddress>

# Dashboard health
yarn start contracts dashboard r health <dashboardAddress>

# Dashboard info (addresses, parameters, vault bindings)
yarn start contracts dashboard r info <dashboardAddress>

```

These provide a product-level view of:

- vault health & status
- key parameters and addresses
- high-level metrics relevant to the specific “vault product”

Docs:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/contracts/dashboard`

---

### 6.2.2 Vault-Level View (`vo` – Advanced / Low-Level)

For underlying vault configuration and debugging, use `vo`:

```bash
# Vault overview (contract-level)
yarn start vo r overview -v <vaultAddress>

# Quick health check
yarn start vo r health -v <vaultAddress>

# Roles and permissions
yarn start vo r roles -v <vaultAddress>

# Core vault info (fee parameters, limits, addresses, etc.)
yarn start vo r info -v <vaultAddress>

```

Docs:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/vo`

In practice:

- **Dashboard commands** → main UX surface for operators.
- **`vo` commands** → used when you need full contract detail or to diagnose odd behavior.

---

### 6.2.3 Performance Metrics (`metrics` namespace)

Use the `metrics` namespace for APR and rewards analysis:

```bash
# Comprehensive statistics (APR & rewards)
yarn start metrics r statistic <dashboardAddress>

# APR history (simplified text mode)
yarn start metrics r charts-apr <dashboardAddress> <reportCount> --simplified

# Rewards distribution charts
yarn start metrics r charts-rewards <dashboardAddress> <reportCount>

```

Docs:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/metrics`

Use these for:

- performance reviews
- sanity-checking expected vs realized APR
- understanding the effect of DVT tiers and any strategy layer

---

### 6.3 Example Alerting Rules (Non-Canonical)

> The thresholds below are illustrative only.
> 
> 
> They are not official Lido or Obol requirements and should be tuned to your vault’s risk profile, product design, and the latest protocol guidance.
> 

Examples of vault-level alerts you might configure:

- **Health factor approaching 100%**
    - Trigger an alert when health factor trends down into a “warning band” you define (for example, somewhere below x% according to your strategy), so you have time to respond before it reaches unsafe levels.
- **High utilization of mint capacity**
    - Alert when utilization ratio is close to full (for example, above your internal high-water mark), indicating the vault is near its minting / leverage limit.
- **Low immediate liquidity**
    - Alert when “available to withdraw” ETH falls below an internal buffer — for instance, less than one or two validators’ worth of ETH, depending on how your product handles withdrawals.
- **Sustained underperformance vs expectation**
    - Alert when net staking APR stays materially below your internal target range for multiple reporting periods (e.g. several `metrics r statistic` runs in a row).
- **Low operational efficiency**
    - Alert when net APR / gross APR (efficiency) drops below your chosen target, signalling that penalties, slashing, or high costs are eroding returns more than expected.

**Cadence (example only):**

- Health & dashboard checks: **at least daily**, ideally via automated alerts.
- Performance statistics (`metrics r statistic`): **weekly**.
- APR / rewards charts (`metrics r charts-apr / charts-rewards`): **monthly or quarterly** reviews.

---

## 7. Deposits, Exits, Withdrawals (Pointers Only)

This guide intentionally **does not duplicate** the full stVault operations surface. For:

- **Beacon-chain deposits** (funding validators),
- **Validator exits**,
- **Triggering withdrawals**,
- **Withdrawing ETH from the vault to treasury**,
- **Minting / burning stETH or wstETH**,

use the **Lido stVault CLI** docs:

- Dashboard write commands (deposits, exits, etc.):
    
    `https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/contracts/dashboard#write`
    
- Vault / VaultHub / additional commands:
    
    `https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/`
    

This keeps your operational runbooks aligned with the latest Lido contracts and CLI behaviour.

---

## 8. Fees, Splitter & Obol Rewards

### 8.1 From Vault to Fee Splitter

Step 1: disburse **node operator fees** from the vault/dashboard to `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT` using the Lido CLI.

1. (Optional) Inspect vault info:
    
    ```bash
    yarn start vo r info -v <vaultAddress>
    ```
    
2. Disburse node-operator fees to the configured `feeRecipient` (your splitter) using the **dashboard write** command:
    
    ```bash
    yarn start contracts dashboard w disburse-node-operator-fee \
      <dashboardAddress>
    ```
    

Dashboard write docs:

`https://lidofinance.github.io/lido-staking-vault-cli/commands/contracts/dashboard#write`

This moves accrued node-operator fees from the vault to your `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`.

Hoodi link: https://stvaults-hoodi.testnet.fi/vaults/your_vault_address/claim

---

### 8.2 From Splitter to Participants

Step 2: **distribute and claim** via Splits:

1. Open **Splits UI**: `https://app.splits.org/`
2. Select your `FEE_SPLIT_CONTRACT`.
3. Run:
    - **Distribute** – moves the contract’s balance into recipients’ claimable balances.
    - **Claim** – each participant (client, operators, Obol) claims to their own address or Safe.

Verify:

- Vault → splitter transfers match expectations.
- Splitter allocations match your agreed split.
- Obol’s **1% fee share** is visible and claimable at its protocol address.

Hoodi Link: Not available
Mainnet Link: https://app.splits.org/accounts/fee_splitter_contract_address/?chainId=1

---

### 8.3 Obol Rewards (Protocol Incentives)

If the splitter is configured correctly with Obol’s 1% share, **Obol rewards** can be claimed via:

- **Obol Launchpad:** `https://launchpad.obol.org/`

Process:

1. Connect the **recipient wallet / Safe** that owns the reward entitlement.
2. Navigate to the rewards section.
3. Claim any available incentives.

> Launchpad is used only for claiming Obol rewards.
> 
> 
> All validator-related actions for stVaults must still go through the **Lido stVault UI or CLI**, not Launchpad.
> 

Hoodi Link: https://hoodi.launchpad.obol.org/operator/your_address/

Mainnet Link: https://launchpad.obol.org/operator/your_address/
