advanced-and-troubleshooting/advanced/client-swap.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
description: Client swap
---

# Client swap

If you are using CDVN, the default stack is:

| Execution layer | Consensus layer | Distributed validator | Validator client | MEV       |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------------- | ---------------- | --------- |
| Nethermind            | Lighthouse      | Charon                | Lodestar         | MEV boost |

However, to achieve greater resilience through client diversity, it is preferred to run a variety of clients across your cluster, ideally ensuring no single EL/CL/VC runs on one third of the nodes or more. CDVN supports changing from the default clients.

Currently supported client options are:

| Execution layer | Consensus layer | Distributed validator | Validator client | MEV          |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
| Nethermind      | Lighthouse      | Charon                | Lodestar         | MEV boost    |
|                 | Grandine        |                       | Nimbus           | Commit boost |

For support between different combinations, refer to Charon's compatibility matrix, found in the [prepare section of the docs](../../run-a-dv/prepare/how_where_dvs.md) or under [release notes](https://github.com/ObolNetwork/charon/releases/) for each release.

## Choosing clients in fresh cluster

In order to choose which clients to use in a new cluster, simply leave uncommented (only) the desired `EL`, `CL`, `MEV` or `VC` variables in the `.env` file. There must be only one client per component. The cluster will use the respective client for each component.

## Swapping clients in an already running cluster

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For ([L](https://github.com/obolNetwork/lido-charon-distributed-validator-node))[CDVN](https://github.com/obolNetwork/charon-distributed-validator-node) users who created their `.env` file before the release of charon `v1.6.0`, there are breaking changes between then and the current multi-client `.env` file setup.
>
> The minimal addition to an older version of the `.env` file compatible with the current versions of the repos is to add `COMPOSE_PROFILES=el_nethermind,cl_lighthouse,dv_charon,vc_lodestar,mev_mevboost` to your existing `.env` file.
>
> Some environment variables were renamed in order to be client-agnostic. **If you had set these environment variables to custom values in your `.env`, you need to set the new variables to your custom values**. They serve the same purpose.
>
> | Old                           | New                              |
> |-------------------------------|--------------------------------- |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_P2P           | EL_PORT_P2P                      |
> | NETHERMIND_IP_HTTP            | EL_IP_HTTP                       |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_HTTP          | EL_PORT_HTTP                     |
> | NETHERMIND_IP_ENGINE          | EL_IP_ENGINE                     |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_ENGINE        | EL_PORT_ENGINE                   |
> | LIGHTHOUSE_PORT_P2P           | CL_PORT_P2P                      |
> | LODESTAR_PORT_METRICS         | VC_PORT_METRICS                  |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_GETHEADER    | MEV_TIMEOUT_GETHEADER            |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_GETPAYLOAD   | MEV_TIMEOUT_GETPAYLOAD           |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_REGVAL       | MEV_TIMEOUT_REGVAL               |
> | MEVBOOST_RELAYS               | MEV_RELAYS                       |
> | NETHERMIND_PROMTAIL_MONITORED | EL_NETHERMIND_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> | LIGHTHOUSE_PROMTAIL_MONITORED | CL_LIGHTHOUSE_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> | LODESTAR_PROMTAIL_MONITORED   | VC_LODESTAR_PROMTAIL_MONITORED   |
> | MEV_BOOST_PROMTAIL_MONITORED  | MEV_MEV_BOOST_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |

1. Copy the new `.env.sample.<NETWORK>` file to `.env`.
2. Comment or uncomment your preferred Execution, Consensus, Validator, and MEV clients and save the file.
3. Stop the existing cluster that uses the old environment file.

```sh
docker compose --profile "" down
```

3. Start the node again to pick up the changes to the `.env` file.

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

Your node should start up with the new clients.

### Swap Consensus layer

> [!NOTE]
> The code snippets under those steps are assuming you are swapping from Lighthouse CL to Grandine CL and you.

1. Stop the existing consensus layer client container.

> [!TIP]
> If you do not want to experience downtime while the new beacon node is syncing, you can set a fallback beacon node for Charon (`CHARON_FALLBACK_BEACON_NODE_ENDPOINTS` env variable) that will be used while the new BN is syncing.
> Note that you need to restart Charon as well in order for it to take effect.

```sh
docker compose down cl-lighthouse
```

2. Comment out the currently set `CL` environment variable in `.env` (i.e.: `CL=cl-lighthouse` -> `#CL=cl-lighthouse`). Uncomment the desired CL (i.e.: `#CL=cl-grandine` -> `CL=cl-grandine`).

3. Start the new consensus layer client container.

```sh
docker compose up cl-grandine -d
```

4. Restart Charon in order to update the CL client it's querying.

```sh
docker compose down charon
docker compose up charon -d
```

5. After the new consensus layer client is synced and you are assured the new setup is working, you can delete the previous CL client's data in order to save resources.

```sh
rm -rf ./data/lighthouse
```

### Swap Validator client

> [!NOTE]
> The code snippets under those steps are assuming you are swapping from Lodestar VC to Nimbus VC.

1. Stop the existing validator client container.

```sh
docker compose down vc-lodestar
```

2. Comment out the currently set `VC` environment variable in `.env` (i.e.: `VC=vc-lodestar` -> `#VC=vc-lodestar`). Uncomment the desired VC (i.e.: `#VC=vc-nimbus` -> `VC=vc-nimbus`).

3. Start the new validator client container.

```sh
docker compose up vc-nimbus -d
```

4. After the new validator client is started and you are assured the new setup is working, you can delete the previous VC's data in order to save resources

```sh
rm -rf ./data/lodestar
```

### SWAP MEV client

> [!NOTE]
> The code snippets under those steps are assuming you are swapping from MEV Boost to Commit Boost and you are using Lighthouse CL.

> [!NOTE]
> If switching to Commit Boost, you will need to copy a Commit Boost TOML config `commit-boost/config.toml.sample.<NETWORK>` to `commit-boost/config.toml`, as it does not support `.env` configurations yet. Make sure the configuration matches what you have had set for mev-boost, in terms of relays and timeouts.

1. Stop the existing MEV client container.

```sh
docker compose down mev-mevboost
```

2. Comment out the currently set `MEV` environment variable in `.env` (i.e.: `MEV=mev-mevboost` -> `#MEV=mev-mevboost`). Uncomment the desired MEV (i.e.: `#MEV=mev-commitboost` -> `MEV=mev-commitboost`).

3. Start the new MEV client container.

```sh
docker compose up mev-commitboost -d
```

4. Restart the beacon node in order to update the MEV it's querying.

```sh
docker compose down cl-lighthouse
docker compose up cl-lighthouse -d
```

Commit message:

Add prysm and teku VC; make teku default example

advanced-and-troubleshooting/advanced/client-swap.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
description: Client swap
---

# Client swap

If you are using CDVN, the default stack is:

| Execution layer | Consensus layer | Distributed validator | Validator client | MEV       |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------------- | ---------------- | --------- |
| Nethermind      | Lighthouse      | Charon                | Lodestar         | MEV boost |

However, to achieve greater resilience through client diversity, it is preferred to run a variety of clients across your cluster, ideally ensuring no single EL/CL/VC runs on one third of the nodes or more. CDVN supports changing from the default clients.

Currently supported client options are:

| Execution layer | Consensus layer | Distributed validator | Validator client | MEV          |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
| Nethermind      | Lighthouse      | Charon                | Lodestar         | MEV boost    |
|                 | Grandine        |                       | Nimbus           | Commit boost |
|                 |                 |                       | Prysm            |              |
|                 |                 |                       | Teku             |              |

For support between different combinations, refer to Charon's compatibility matrix, found in the [prepare section of the docs](../../run-a-dv/prepare/how_where_dvs.md) or under [release notes](https://github.com/ObolNetwork/charon/releases/) for each release.

## Choosing clients in fresh cluster

In order to choose which clients to use in a new cluster, simply leave uncommented (only) the desired `EL`, `CL`, `MEV` or `VC` variables in the `.env` file. There must be only one client per component. The cluster will use the respective client for each component.

## Swapping clients in an already running cluster

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For ([L](https://github.com/obolNetwork/lido-charon-distributed-validator-node))[CDVN](https://github.com/obolNetwork/charon-distributed-validator-node) users who created their `.env` file before the release of charon `v1.6.0`, there are breaking changes between then and the current multi-client `.env` file setup.
>
> The minimal addition to an older version of the `.env` file compatible with the current versions of the repos is to add `COMPOSE_PROFILES=el_nethermind,cl_lighthouse,dv_charon,vc_lodestar,mev_mevboost` to your existing `.env` file.
>
> Some environment variables were renamed in order to be client-agnostic. **If you had set these environment variables to custom values in your `.env`, you need to set the new variables to your custom values**. They serve the same purpose.
>
> | Old                           | New                              |
> |-------------------------------|--------------------------------- |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_P2P           | EL_PORT_P2P                      |
> | NETHERMIND_IP_HTTP            | EL_IP_HTTP                       |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_HTTP          | EL_PORT_HTTP                     |
> | NETHERMIND_IP_ENGINE          | EL_IP_ENGINE                     |
> | NETHERMIND_PORT_ENGINE        | EL_PORT_ENGINE                   |
> | LIGHTHOUSE_PORT_P2P           | CL_PORT_P2P                      |
> | LODESTAR_PORT_METRICS         | VC_PORT_METRICS                  |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_GETHEADER    | MEV_TIMEOUT_GETHEADER            |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_GETPAYLOAD   | MEV_TIMEOUT_GETPAYLOAD           |
> | MEVBOOST_TIMEOUT_REGVAL       | MEV_TIMEOUT_REGVAL               |
> | MEVBOOST_RELAYS               | MEV_RELAYS                       |
> | NETHERMIND_PROMTAIL_MONITORED | EL_NETHERMIND_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> | LIGHTHOUSE_PROMTAIL_MONITORED | CL_LIGHTHOUSE_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |
> | LODESTAR_PROMTAIL_MONITORED   | VC_LODESTAR_PROMTAIL_MONITORED   |
> | MEV_BOOST_PROMTAIL_MONITORED  | MEV_MEV_BOOST_PROMTAIL_MONITORED |

1. Copy the new `.env.sample.<NETWORK>` file to `.env`.
2. Comment or uncomment your preferred Execution, Consensus, Validator, and MEV clients and save the file.
3. Stop the existing cluster that uses the old environment file.

```sh
docker compose --profile "" down
```

3. Start the node again to pick up the changes to the `.env` file.

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

Your node should start up with the new clients.

### Swap Consensus layer

> [!NOTE]
> The code snippets under those steps are assuming you are swapping from Lighthouse CL to Grandine CL and you.

1. Stop the existing consensus layer client container.

> [!TIP]
> If you do not want to experience downtime while the new beacon node is syncing, you can set a fallback beacon node for Charon (`CHARON_FALLBACK_BEACON_NODE_ENDPOINTS` env variable) that will be used while the new BN is syncing.
> Note that you need to restart Charon as well in order for it to take effect.

```sh
docker compose down cl-lighthouse
```

2. Comment out the currently set `CL` environment variable in `.env` (i.e.: `CL=cl-lighthouse` -> `#CL=cl-lighthouse`). Uncomment the desired CL (i.e.: `#CL=cl-grandine` -> `CL=cl-grandine`).

3. Start the new consensus layer client container.

```sh
docker compose up cl-grandine -d
```

4. Restart Charon in order to update the CL client it's querying.

```sh
docker compose down charon
docker compose up charon -d
```

5. After the new consensus layer client is synced and you are assured the new setup is working, you can delete the previous CL client's data in order to save resources.

```sh
rm -rf ./data/lighthouse
```

### Swap Validator client

> [!NOTE]
> The code snippets under those steps are assuming you are swapping from Lodestar VC to Teku VC.

1. Stop the existing validator client container.

```sh
docker compose down vc-lodestar
```

2. Comment out the currently set `VC` environment variable in `.env` (i.e.: `VC=vc-lodestar` -> `#VC=vc-lodestar`). Uncomment the desired VC (i.e.: `#VC=vc-teku` -> `VC=vc-teku`).

3. Start the new validator client container.

```sh
docker compose up vc-teku -d
```

4. After the new validator client is started and you are assured the new setup is working, you can delete the previous VC's data in order to save resources

```sh
rm -rf ./data/lodestar
```

### SWAP MEV client

> [!NOTE]
> The code snippets under those steps are assuming you are swapping from MEV Boost to Commit Boost and you are using Lighthouse CL.

> [!NOTE]
> If switching to Commit Boost, you will need to copy a Commit Boost TOML config `commit-boost/config.toml.sample.<NETWORK>` to `commit-boost/config.toml`, as it does not support `.env` configurations yet. Make sure the configuration matches what you have had set for mev-boost, in terms of relays and timeouts.

1. Stop the existing MEV client container.

```sh
docker compose down mev-mevboost
```

2. Comment out the currently set `MEV` environment variable in `.env` (i.e.: `MEV=mev-mevboost` -> `#MEV=mev-mevboost`). Uncomment the desired MEV (i.e.: `#MEV=mev-commitboost` -> `MEV=mev-commitboost`).

3. Start the new MEV client container.

```sh
docker compose up mev-commitboost -d
```

4. Restart the beacon node in order to update the MEV it's querying.

```sh
docker compose down cl-lighthouse
docker compose up cl-lighthouse -d
```
